---
title: Intro to Process Improvement
description: >-
  Have you ever wanted to change how your workplace operates, but didn’t know
  where to begin? Do you wish you could remove inefficiencies in your daily work
  or reduce bureaucracy for your patrons, clients, colleagues, or customers?
  This training aims to introduce you to Lean, a process improvement methodology
  that helps you rapidly improve the work you do every day. 
prerequisites:
length: '8'
subjects:
  - Process Improvement
  - Lean
  - Six Sigma
series:
  - Process Improvement
team_members:
course_short_name: Intro to Process Improvement
course_materials_link: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0BwRgeGq-b8f9OEh3ZjZTMVV5VXc
order: 2
category: academy
categories:
  - academy
---
## About this course

Have you ever wanted to change how your workplace operates, but didn’t know where to begin? Do you wish you could remove inefficiencies in your daily work or reduce bureaucracy for your patrons, clients, colleagues, or customers? This training aims to introduce you to Lean, a process improvement methodology that helps you rapidly improve the work you do every day. Participants will leave this two-day training with a method to define a problem, analyze a process, and eliminate inefficiencies. Our objective is to help you learn ways to implement changes to better serve your customers and help you spend time on what’s most important.

Previously offered as Lean 101, this updated and expanded course, now called Introduction to Process Improvement, has been re-designed to provide you with more actionable insights and a deeper dive into process improvement tools. If you are interested in lean process improvement this revamped course is the perfect next step.

Please note: This training is taught in two 4-hour sessions (8 hours total). Due to group assignments in the course, **you must attend both training sessions to register.**

## What you’ll learn in this course

* An introduction to a lean six sigma project framework to Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve, and Control a process improvement project
* How to write problem statements and scope and opportunity for improvement
* How to gain insight into your work through observation and measurement
* Strategies to identify inefficiencies in your work, process mapping, five whys, fishbone diagrams
* Strategies to improve processes and implement standard work, mistake-proofing, and visual management
* How to translate your analysis into concrete ideas for improvement
* How to create a plan, execute it, and track progress

## More resources

* [See more process improvement in action](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EedMmMedj3M&nbsp;)

*Click the green button to be put on the wait list. You will receive an email the next time the class is offered (and seats are available). You must seek your supervisor’s approval to attend any Data Academy courses.*