---
title: Intro to QGIS [OPEN]
description: >-
  By completing this workshop you will be able to use QGIS to tinker with
  spatial data, perform analysis to answer interesting questions, and make
  beautiful maps. Whether you are totally new to GIS, or have experience with
  other GIS software and would like to transfer those skills to a
  non-proprietary platform, this workshop is a great place to start. 
prerequisites:
length: '4'
subjects:
  - Mapping
series:
course_short_name: QGIS
course_materials_link: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1wYegBsuRS_OsfR9g7Igo9w1bhZO5aiA_
order: 2
category: academy
---
## About this course

By completing this workshop you will be able to use QGIS to tinker with spatial data, perform analysis to answer interesting questions, and make beautiful maps. Whether you are totally new to GIS, or have experience with other GIS software and would like to transfer those skills to a non-proprietary platform, this workshop is a great place to start. The workshop will include interactive activities to guide you through essential GIS skills. We will analyze current San Francisco data, and you will discover your inner cartographer by creating maps to communicate your results.

## What you’ll learn in this course

By the end of this workshop you will be able to:

* Tell a story and solve a problem with a map;
* Complete basic data acquisition, management and visualization by integrating data from the City Open Data portal and other open source data sources (Natural Earth, OpenStreetMap, etc.).

## Upcoming Courses Scheduled

[View the Course Calendar](https://datasf.org/academy/calendar/){: target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener"}&nbsp;to see a list of upcoming classes. To get notified when enrollment opens for a class, complete the&nbsp;[Course Interest Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdbubwh6VG_QXphYMfJ-YHGqACK5uhlbv6Qs1hdrLaiFnJQCA/viewform){: target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener"}&nbsp;and select the class (or classes) you’re interested in.

After completing the interest form, you will get an email when enrollment opens 3 weeks prior to class. Enrollment is not guaranteed as sometimes there are more interested employees than available seats.

*Note: You must get your supervisor’s approval to attend any Data Academy courses.*